well early I spoke to toor wesland the
UN special coordinator for the Middle
East peace process I started by asking
him if you thought a ceasefire could
happen soon in
Gaza I cannot give you the timing for
that but what I can say is that uh I
have been working on this now since the
immediate aftermath of the startup I met
with the uh for minister in CYO
Wednesday in the first week to have the
assurances of Egypt's involvement in
assuring humanitarian access to Egypt
into the strip what the Egyptians have
done is to provide for that capacity and
uh now my I've sent my humanitarian
coordinator there to follow that up and
uh see is on the ground as we speak what
does that mean are are you hopeful that
soon Aid will be able to enter
Gaza well we cannot have an effect
distribution of Aid in gasa in the
middle of a war we need the space to get
that in and get it distributed to more
than 2 million people on the inside so
that is what we have been working on
into the nres over the last uh days and
that com Contin it do you think it's
going to happen anytime soon I think
it's going to happen and I hope it will
happen as soon as
possible well let's bring in now
Palestinian journalist Han abuba who
joins us now live from Khan Yunis in
southern Gaza good to have you with us
and you might have heard there the
comments of the un uh special Envoy for
the Middle East peace process talking
about hopefully Aid coming in soon it
can't no doubt it can't come soon enough
tell us what people are facing right now
in terms of the need for basic Aid like
water do they have even water at this
point in Khan unun
M okay well uh thank you uh well the the
situations right now are are just Agra
aggravating due to shortage of essential
needs we're talking about water supplies
and food supplies and and medical
supplies the three important essential
needs for human survival uh I'll give
you just an example of of people that I
just talk to it takes them half a day a
little over half a day just to get a few
bottles of water and only to drink them
I'm not talking about the luxury of
having water running water where they
can take showers and and wash wash their
faces or brush their teeth none of this
is present at all we are talking about
only drinking water and in in most areas
in the Gaza Strip from the northern part
all the way to the South the South that
was designated by the Israeli Army as
safe place for for people to evacuate to
has the same serious problem as the
northern part now without a humanitarian
passage or humanitarian Corridor as the
UN
Envoy describe it uh I think we are we
are HED to a h humanitarian catastrophe
in in the coming a few days if it's not
already happening in some parts of
Gaza all right and uh as you're talking
I just want to point out stay with us
for a second I just want to point out to
uh our viewers we're looking on the left
side of the screen of scenes really
picking up in bayut we understand that's
a demonstration taking place close to
the US Embassy has bah called for a day
of rage and we're seeing things
apparently getting ready heated up and
we can see Security Forces lining up
there trying to contain those
demonstrations so clearly what's
happening hany in Gaza is moving the
Arab Street at this point
tell us a little bit about how people
are coping now we see for example after
the strike on alahi Baptist Hospital a
lot of Civilian casualties being rushed
to other hospitals but they were already
running low on Basics do they have fuel
electricity oh that that's right I mean
hospitals across the Gaza Strip are
running beyond their capacity I'm aware
a shifa hospital is running five times
Beyond its capacity other smaller
hospitals like the one I'm I'm reporting
live from it's a three times be Beyond
its capabilities uh to accommodate
patients let alone casualties of from
from air strikes what the what the
incident did it it created an outrage
across the world I know there is a
widespread condemnation of the attacks
uh on on on the Baptist Al Hospital in
the Gaza Strip what's important to point
out the hospital was was sought by many
people who were asked to evacuate the
northern part and the and Gaza
governorate and took it as a shelter to
protect their families so what they did
literally they sat in group by evening
time each family gather its family
members and sat in group either to have
a little chat about the war or whether
they were going to be safe or not or
have us whatever food they had at that
moment
uh the the attacks shatter any sense of
security to Palestinians so from where
I'm reporting right now the hospital has
been a sight for the past two hours a
sight of two two major
elements one that it creates a sense of
anger and tears and sorrow for people
remaining family members start pouring
into the hospital collecting dead bodies
of their family members who died died in
the in the air strikes earlier today the
other elements of the hos of of the
scene here is more people despite
knowing the danger involved in taking
hospitals as danger as dangerous uh
because due to the fact that a hospital
that was uh taken care and and sponsored
by by by a church was targeted and and
and most civilians who were there uh
were were killed despite that people are
still thinking that it might be safe
enough for them and not sleep in the
streets so that's that's how it it it's
a kind of ironic but this is the reality
of how people are are thinking about
right now all right thank you so much
Hanny for relaying to us the situation
there in the south of Gaza and we are
continuing to look at those live
pictures coming in from bayout where it
seems like Security Forces is playing
something of a cat and mouse game with
protesters gathered in the Lebanese
Capital we saw them firing tear gas
trying to disperse demonstrators angry
at the Israeli strikes particularly the
strike on the hospital last night
following which hasah called for a day
of Rage we're certainly seeing a lot of
angry seats playing out in Arab capitals
like Beirut
today